Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn (with the Throne of Bhaal expansion installed)

Expanded Thief Stronghold



Gebhard Blucher <g_blucher@yahoo.com>
http://blucher.fortunecity.com/
Last Version 2.14
Date: 28 JUL 06



Updated Version by Leomar 
http://www.shsforums.net/index.php?showuser=9003 
Version 2.20
Date: 27 March 10

I want to thank Gebhard for his permission to support Expanded Thief Stronghold.

You can post your bugs and/or questions
at the English SHS Forum in the Mega Mod Help section: http://www.shsforums.net/index.php?act=SF&f=193

Ihr könnt Eure Bugs und/oder Fragen im Deutschen Kerzenburg Forum posten:
http://kerzenburg.baldurs-gate.eu/forumdisplay.php?f=2



0. Contents
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
1. General Info.
2. Installation.
3. Thanks.
4. Spoilers.

Appendix I: Bugs.
Appendix II: Version Notes.



1. General Info.
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
I've heard quite a few people on the alt.games.baldurs-gate newsgroup, the Bame Banshee forums and elsewhere complain about the Thief Stronghold in BG2: some say that it is either dull, too short, annoying, or all three.  Well, I like it.  Along with the Mage Stronghold, it's my favorite stronghold in the game.  I do agree however, that it could use some spicing up.  That's where this 'mod' comes in -- it expands quite a bit on the original stronghold, fixes some existing bugs and has a lot of (I hope) cute touches.













2a. Installation.
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
1. Extract the the contents of this .7z file to the main BG2 directory.
2. Click on the 'Setup-GBThfKp.exe'.
3. Select your language option.
4. Select '[I]nstall (or [R]e-install) and let WeiDU do its magic.

That's it!

In short:

TO INSTALL CLICK ON THE SETUP-GBTHFKP.EXE FILE.

Additional Install Info (recap):
- Extract this .7z file and point it to the main BG2 directory (on my computer this is D:\BG2\).  You should have a 'GBThfKp' sub-directory (filled with stuff) and the Setup-GBThfKp.exe file in the game's main directory.

Note #1: This mod _can_ be installed and used without problems in a current game ONLY IF...
- you have NOT already accepted the guild from Renal.
- you have NOT visited the inside of the Prison building in the Government 
  District.
- you have NOT visited the inside of the unlabeled guard house/barracks in the 
  Docks district.
If you've done any of the above, you'll have to start a new game.

Note #2: If you are not a thief, and still want the guild, then use the "NotThief" PC script in the "GBThfKp\_debug" directory.

Note #3: This mod allows the PC to retain the guild, even if he or she chose to work for Bodhi.  Expect some inconsistency however (like Renal sending you a message from beyond the grave).  Note that in usual circumstances, thief characters can't work for Bodhi at all...

Note #4: Theres is a more difficult version of the Mae'Var fight if you want.  Extract the contents of the _debug\impmaevar.7z file into the override directory.  Delete them to uninstall.



Compatibility Issues:
I've gone through a lot of effort to make sure that this mod tries to play along nicely with others.  However there are a few areas you might want to keep an eye on.

One area is the prison in the Government District in Athkatla.  In v2.10 I have tweaked my changes to that zone to be more friendly with other mods, but the chance of course exists that another mod changing that area may break or be broken by this one.  Just keep an eye on it.

Another area is the often forgotten guard house building, north of the Mae'Var's old guildhouse.  It was basically wasted space in the un-modded game, so I sort of took it over for use in this mod.  Due to extensive changes in the area, it is unlikely that this mod will work nicely alongside another mod that also changes the area.  The good news is that I can't think of any other mod that uses this area.  However, there's always the risk that another mod-maker might want to use this area as well, since it is such prime modding real estate.  In v2.13, I have tried to make it as "friendly" as possible in the off chance some other mod wants to make use of that space, but still there is a very good chance that things might not work perfectly.  Again, keep an eye on it.

And of course it goes without saying that any mod affecting major changes to the thief character player stronghold (and related quests and NPCs) will likely cause major problems with both mods.  That kind of problem would fall under the irreconcilable differences category.  After all, changing the thief stronghold is kind of the whole point of this mod.  Any mod trying to change or expand upon the areas and NPCs directly related to the stronghold will likely be incompatible.



2b. Uninstallation.
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
1. Click on the 'Setup-GBThfKp.exe'.
2. Select your language option.
3. Select '[U]n-install and let WeiDU do its magic.



3. Thanks.
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
Most of all, I'd like to thank Mr. W. Weimer for his most excellent and gnarley WeiDU program.  I'd like to thank all of the folks at TeamBG; the programs there were invaluable.  I'd also like to thank the authors of ConTEXT, Med Text Editor (better than ConTEXT), Near Infinity, Shadow Keeper and Infinity Explorer for their wonderful applications; all the folks at the Yahoo groups BWScript and IEEAIS for scripting knowledge and subscribers of the newsgroup Alt.Games.Baldurs-Gate and the GameBanshee forums for ideas (even if they didn't know they were giving them to me).  Also, many thanks to Dyara for the German translation, and Dufroise and Immortality of Clan DLAN for the Spanish translation!  (Gee I feel like I'm at the Oscars or something.  But..eh.  It's nice to thank people.)

Here are some links:
http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~weimer/bgate/
http://forums.forgottenwars.net/
http://forums.fwstudios.net/
http://www.idi.ntnu.no/~joh/ni/
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/IEEAIS
http://ganymede.spaceports.com/~tlstuff/
http://www.teambg.com/
http://www.mud-master.com/
http://gamebanshee.com/
http://infexp.sourceforge.net/
http://www.fixedsys.com/context
http://www.clandlan.cjb.net/
news:alt.games.baldurs-gate

...I hope that's everyone.



4. Spoilers.
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
1. Minor Hints:

 - Talk to Jariel, Lathan and your thieves.  Some of the dialogue has changed, so read it carefully.  In fact read ALL of the dialogues carefully.  If you are familiar with the Thief Stronghold, you may notice quite a few behavioral changes.
 - Visit your guild regularly and check in with Lathan.  He'll sometimes initiate dialogue with you himself but other times he'll wait for you to talk to him first.
 - Don't lose your strongbox key.  (Well, you _can_ lose it, but it'll cost you to replace it.)
 - Pay Renal's quota-master!
 - If you see an NPC 'tense up' (for lack of a better word), then that means the NPC scripts are working.  Let them 'relax' before talking to them, unless it's apparent that they are just randomly walking around or whatever doing nothing.  (This is a good general tip for all IE games.)
 - If you see an NPC begin to leave the area, wait until he's gone before leaving the area yourself.  (Again, this is a good general tip.)
 - Don't press the 'Z' key _quickly_ (or hold it down) to rest over and over (to speed some things up).  If you want to speed things up by sleeping repeatedly (something I do a lot in testing), just wait a second or two inbetween key presses.  The game scripts need a few seconds or so to run properly.  (Just another general tip.)
 - There are two new small 'quests' added to the stronghold and a number of 'cute' extras.
 - Save often! :-)
 - The 'NotThief.zip' file (in the _debug directory) contains a custom player script allowing non-thief characters to gain the thief stronghold.  Read the text file included for more info.  With the later changes to the mod, this is no longer needed by non-thieves if they want to thief stronghold.  I'm keeping it around just in case Renal doesn't offer the stronghold to your fighter or whatever.



2. Major Hints/Walk-through (note that everything isn't really this 'picky', this is just the order I use when I'm

testing 'normal' circumstances):
- Talk to Renal and complete the Mae'Var Quest.
- Keep Kamuzu alive and free him once Mae'Var is dead.
- Back to Renal and accept the Guild.
- Return to the guild and talk to everyone inside, saving Jariel and Lathan for last (in that order).
- Check the key in your inventory, search all of the floors and containers and check out your fence's stock of goods (there's a few new items available).
- Talk to Jariel and assign duties to your thieves. (You'll have to do this periodically.)
- Talk to Lathan.  Ama should show up.  Talk to her and accept to help her.
- Go to the Promenade and do the Ama Quest.
- Report to Lathan.
- A day or two later, talk to Lathan again and he'll tell to you about problems with Kretor's pick-pockets (solution: dock everyone's pay).
- A few days later Lathan will return and inform you of the results of your choice.
- Sometime after your character is installed as guildmaster, Joster (Renal's Quota-Master) will appear next to Jariel.  Pay him off or you'll lose the guild.  (He will return about once a week.)
- Some time after solving the Pickpocket Quest, Lathan will talk to you about Narlen Darkwalk arriving within a few days.
- Couple of days later Narlen will arrive and talk to you about his little problem.  Agree to help him out (or kill him if you want).
- If you chose to help Narlen, go to the City Gates district and talk to him (he's near the north end of the map).  You'll automatically travel to a small wilderness area map.
- Fight the guards outside, let Narlen talk to you and THEN follow him into the cave.
- Fight the bandits in the cave, Narlen will talk to you and say that he will meet you on the second floor of the guild.
- Back to the guild and talk to Narlen and Black Lily.  (Every few days they will deposit some treasure in your strongbox.  Narlen can replace your strongbox key if you lose it, for a price.)
- A day or two after, Lathan will tell you about the Guard Barracks quest.  Accept the offer of help from guild assassins.  Talk to the assassins (they will be just outside of the front door), follow the assassins to the barracks.
- Defeat the outer guards.  Talk to one of the assassins and follow them inside.
- Defeat the guards in room #1.  Talk to the assassins, follow the to the next room.
- Ditto room #2.
- Room #3.  Kill the Guard Captain.  If any of the assassins survived, one will talk to you and ask to meet you in the Sea's Bounty.  (Go to the Sea's Bounty, if you want.  Talk to each assassin and accept the offer of a drink, you'll get experience for each surviving assassin.)
- Return to Lathan for your reward.
- That's the final Expanded Thief Stronghold quest.  I may add more quests at a later date, but for right now that's it.
- More: Each city map has extra NPCs (people like Noble, Commoner, Sailor, etc.)  These guys have no purpose other than for you to pickpocket.  The NPCs 'refresh' every day (they will only be there during the morning-afternoon time period.
- More: If your thieves are caught by the police, you can choose to bribe their way out of jail (as usual) or (now) you can go to the jail and break them free yourself.
- More: The store front is now a proper "front" and working bar.  Check out the antics of the tavern patrons and serving wench.
- More: Brannel is now inside the guild.  He's the bouncer, keeping people out of the back rooms.



One last thing: Please report any bugs you find to me, including any grammar/spelling errors.  (I've not the best creative writer in the world and this is my first "real" mod, so bear with me.  PLEASE forgive Narlen Darkwalk's 'thieves cant'.  Heh.)  This mod SHOULD be stable and relatvely bug-free, as I've tested it extensively but if you find something, feel free to send me an email.  Also if you have any ideas for additional quests or "gee, wouldn't it be neat/better if..." ideas, then by all means, let me know.  I open to suggestions.  I've got a couple of ideas myself, but more ideas are always better.  I've got the mod set up so that I can fairly easily add more quests later.

GB <g_blucher@yahoo.com>



Appendix I: Unresolved Bugs
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
1. In some rare cases, Narlen Darkwalk won't initiate dialogue with the PC once they've reached the over-land map of the bandit camp.  He and the PC will face each other, but the dialogue won't start.  I'm not sure what causes this, but waiting a few seconds for Narlen to work out his issues clears everything up.  NOTE: this hasn't happened to me in quite a while.














Appendix II: Version Notes
¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯¯
1.0: First release, in TBG format.

1.1: Minor Bug fixes and additions.

2.0: First WeiDU format release, minor additions.

2.1: Minor additions, scripting tweaks, NPC portraits, etc.

2.2: Some minor tweaks, a few additions (don't want to spoil you).

2.3: German translation.  Wow!  Thanks a lot Dyara!
     Fixed this readme.
     Included the 'notthief' script

2.4: Minor changes, removed scripts (they're on my site if you want them).

2.5: Bug fixes (thanks Dyara and Sherman Wang)
     added Spanish translation (thanks Dufroise and Immortality of Clan DLAN)

2.6: Fixed minor compatibility issue with the Kelsey mod.
     Made note that Renal will offer the guild to any class, not just thieves.
     Very minor and long over-due fixes to this file.  It's still ugly though.:)

2.7: New install-time option to disable the Improved Mae'Var component of this
     mod.

2.8: (09 Feb 2003)
     Fixes a minor translation error (missing string with the new 'remove 
     improved Mae'Var' component.  Thanks again Dyara!  (I translated the 
     Spanish entry myself, and it probably shows. :-)

2.9: (20 JUL 06)
     Disabled the "Random Encounters" and the "Remove Improved Mae'Var" 
     components.  The random encounters may return, but right now I find them to 
     be too annoyingly frequent.  As for Mae'var, I like his "improvedness" and 
     feel the component to remove him is unneeded.

     Also some minor tweakage and buglet fixes:
     - fixed a problem with the area outside of the orc being flagged as a
       random encounter (no save) area.
     - tweaked a few lines of dialogue.
     - removed some extra gem, etc. bags from the stronghold.
     - fixed the infamous "noblewoman 4" buglet. >.>
     - a few other, very minor, changes.
   
2.10: (21 JUL 06)
      Fixed a compatibility issue with the Amber mod (tested).  Also this may 
      clear up any issues the mod may have had with later versions of TTD 
      (untested).  Some associated tweaks that I doubt anyone but myself would 
      notice.

2.11: (23 JUL 06)
      Tweaked the stores, added some new dialogue.
      Extensive mod & .tp file optimization.  In this version you must be a 
      thief to get the guild.  I didn't like the way I patched Renal's dialogue 
      previously.  So if you still want the guild and your character isn't a 
      thief, you will have to use the NotThief custom PC script in the 
      GBThfKp/_debug directory (at least for now). Mae'var and his goons will 
      not attempt to move toward invisible characters if they can no longer see 
      anyone. Feel free to cheese them for an easy win, if you are into that 
      sort of thing.

2.12: Fixed a dumb .tp2 file mistake.  Doh!

2.13: (26 JUL 06)
      Some significant changes.
      - After much deliberation and some discussion, I've decided to remove the 
        "Improved Mae'Var" component of the mod completely.  If you want him, he 
        is still out there in Westly Weimer's Tactics mod (in pretty much the 
        same form as when I sent him off to Wes).  Increasing the difficulty of 
        the game is not part of this mod.
      - Another change is that you may now enter the Dock Barracks before the 
        assault on the guild house.  I had originally cut that area off until 
        the assault to prevent some possible exploits, but I've decided that it 
        doesn't matter.  Besides, as SixOfSpades told me, it's nice to go in 
        there and talk to the guards when you aren't on the quest.  This mod is 
        about expanding the content of the game, not removing access to content 
        (no matter how thin that content may be).
      - The storefront is now a proper tavern, a real "front" for the illegal 
        activities within.  Rattell now has drinks for sale (I highly recommend 
        tasting the Old Winyards wine, myself), and there are a few patrons 
        inside getting drunk, as well as saucy tavern wench!  Brannel (the guard 
        who used to be outside the guild) is now located inside.  He serves as a 
        bouncer keeping people out of the back rooms.
      - Every half a tenday the chance that your thieves will be arrested is 
        recalculated, based on the difficulty of the tasks assigned to them.  
        Previously I had carried over a scripting (quirk? error? inconsistency?) 
        made by Bioware that allowed thieves to operate with impunity, no matter 
        how outrageous your demands, as long as you didn't change their 
        activities.  Now there is always a chance each week that your thieves 
        will be caught by the law, unless you assign them to be inactive (in 
        which case they are doing nothing but cooling their heels, and so risk 
        no chance of getting arrested).
      - On a more technical note, I've made further changes to the .tp2 and 
        other files in the mod package. Most changes were made with an eye to 
        improving "friendliness" with other mods.  (Though *some* small amount 
        of destructive patching remains in place in regards to the few NPCs and 
        areas comprising the stronghold experience.  This is a conscious 
        decision on my part, as obviously changes within the guild are quite 
        extensive and many are vital to the proper functioning of this mod.)  
        However, unless you install another mod making changes to the actual 
        guild and its NPCs, there should be no problems.  (Note that this only 
        makes sense as two mods trying to do similar things logically won't work 
        together despite the virtues of WeiDU without some coordination between 
        the mod makers.)
      - Also I've cleaned up quite a few of the .tra and .d files to make them 
        easier to read, and the changes to them more apparent.  Lastly this 
        version has the usual tweaks and buglet fixes, etc., etc.

2.14: (28 JUL 06)
      If you want the old Improved Mae'Var, he can be found in the 
      _debug/impmaevar.rar archive; just extract the files into the override.
      Also, added a few banters, and tweaked (reduced) the enviromental chat in 
      the tavern front of the guild.  Some other minor changes.










2.15: (23 NOV 08 by Leomar)
      - Taimon's area crash fix - GBThfKp.tp2
        http://kerzenburg.nightisforum.de/showpost.php?p=894401&postcount=206
      - Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick1.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick2.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick3.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick4.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick5.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick6.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick7.cre]
        Zeroed effects offset in [GBThfKp\Creatures\TSPick8.cre]
      - Added VERSION flag
      - Added WeiDU v208

2.16: (01 APR 09 by Leomar)
      - White Agnus’ added a BGT and language check, so no English wav-files 
        will overwrite the German ones by a German BGT installation
      - Removed GBTfkp.bat
      - Updated Read Me
      - Updated to WeiDU v210

2.17: (25 May 09 by Leomar)
      - Completed and revised German translation by Roter Berserker

2.18: (01 June 09 by Leomar)
      - Updated Spanish translation

2.19: (08 November 09 by Leomar)
      - Added Russian translation by Aerie.ru + prowler
      - Updated to WeiDU v211

2.20: (01 April 10 by Leomar)
      - Wisp’s Unfinished Business compatibility fix
      - Updated to WeiDU v215

